There are different types of insulin within the category of fast-acting insulin. For example, Fiasp is an insulin product under the company Novo Nordisk that offers rapid-acting insulin that works faster than other common fast-acting insulin products such as Novolog or Humalog.
There are risk testing options available for family members of those with diabetes. TrialNet is an organization that offers autoantibody testing for family members to see if they are at risk of developing type 1 diabetes, done through an at-home kit, your local lab or at your nearest TrialNet location.
Different forms of exercise impact blood glucose levels in different ways. For example, long duration cardio may gradually lower glucose levels, while high intensity exercises such as weight lifting may increase glucose levels. The impact of specific exercises on blood glucose levels may differ from person to person.
Different types of food impact blood glucose levels in different ways. Foods high in fat such as pizza may cause a delayed glucose spike while sugary drinks can cause immediate glucose spikes.
There are clinical trials available looking for participants with type 1 diabetes. Each clinical trial has requirement criteria that you may or may not be eligible for. Some benefits to enrolling in clinical trials include potential access to free medical devices or medications if they are a part of the trial, monetary compensation, and the potential benefits of the program, medication, or therapy the trial may be testing.
There are summer camps made for children with diabetes. The American Diabetes Association hosts summer camps in many different states, and some private organizations have both day and sleepaway summer camps specialized for children with diabetes. These camps have healthcare teams that carefully manage the campers' diabetes management while at camp, but also provide diabetes education and a community for kids to thrive.
There is an FDA approved medication called TZield that can successfully delay the onset of type 1 diabetes. This medication targets high risk individuals who have abnormal response to glucose, but are not yet diagnosed with type 1 diabetes and is able to delay the onset of the disease by years.
There are oral medications aimed to improve insulin sensitivity. Medications such as metformin are used by both type 1 and type 2 diabetics to improve the body's sensitivity to insulin, and improve glucose control.
There are overpatches available to help secure medical devices to the skin. Both plain and colorful overpatches can be found online to act as a sticker and secure continuous glucose monitors, insulin pumps, or sites to the skin.
Alexander Zverev is a professional tennis player with type 1 diabetes. He has won a gold medal in the 2021 Tokyo Olympics and 23 singles titles.
Menstruation can impact insulin sensitivity. Some change their diabetes management plans or insulin pump settings for the duration of their period.
Tresiba is a type of long acting basal insulin that allows for flexibility in the timing of the daily basal insulin dose. Tresiba works for up to 42 hours, and allows for basal dosing to occur both in more and less than 24 hours.
There are multiple companies that produce the same type of insulin, but can have varying costs depending on your insurance. For example, Lantus produced by the company Sanofi and Basaglar produced by the company Lilly are both long acting basal insulin products containing insulin glargine. Although there are some differences, these products may be interchangeable for many. Consult with your healthcare provider and pharmacy to find the right, and cheapest options for you.
Many diabetes related medical devices such as pumps or continuous glucose monitors have free trials.
Some individuals with diabetes experience a blood glucose spike in the morning due to dawn phenomenon where the body releases hormones in the morning that cause a rise in blood sugar.
Formerly known as the Juvernile Diabetes Research Foundation (JDRF), Breakthrough T1D is a nonprofit organization that hosts diabetes related events and fundraisers such as walks, meet and greets, summits, and community engagement events in multiple different states. Check out their website at breakthrought1d.org to find upcoming events near you.
Nick Jonas, an actor and muscician known for his membership in the Jonas Brothers, was diagnosed with type 1 diabetes at age 13.
Continuous glucose monitors (CGMs) are small medical devices commonly attached to the arms or abdomen that connect to either a receiver or your phone to instantaneously report your blood glucose levels. Most CGMs last 10 - 14 days before needing replacement.
Recent technological improvements allow some insulin pumps to use AI paired to a continuous glucose monitor (CGM) to track trends in blood glucose trends. For example, if your CGM tracks blood glucose levels falling, the pump may use previous trend data to pull back the amount of insulin given to prevent hypoglycemia or low blood sugar.
When treating low blood glucose levels with a simple sugar such as juice, your blood sugar may spike and fall back down. One strategy to avoid this is to follow a simple sugar treatment such as juice with a complex carb treatment such as crackers. Please consult with a healthcare professional before changing your diabetes management plans.
Consistent and prolonged hyperglycemia, or high blood sugar, can cause damage to the blood vessels in the eyes. It is recommended that diabetics see an optometrist yearly for examinations.
Consistent and prolonged hyperglycemia, or high blood sugar, can cause long term complications including but not limited to kidney failure, vision and eye problems, nerve damage, ulcers and infections in the feet, coronary artery disease, and increased risk of stroke and/or heart attacks. Complications are avoided with good management of blood glucose levels.
Consumption of alcohol can cause hypoglycemia, or low blood sugar, up to several hours after consumption. Alcohol can also have adverse effects interacting with certain diabetes medications. Please consult your healthcare provider on ways to safely consume alcohol.
Excess weight in individuals with diabetes can lead to insulin resistance, meaning your body needs more insulin to control blood glucose levels. Excess weight can also contribute to risk of long term complications such as cardiovascular disease, risk of stroke, kidney disease and nerve damage.
Drinking water, in conjuction with insulin usage, can help with high blood glucose levels by flushing out some of the glucose into urine.
Prolonged and consistent hyperglycemia, or high blood sugar, can impair the immune system causing individuals to be immunocompromised.
Prolonged and consistent hyperglycemia, or high blood sugar, can damage blood vessels, leading to poor circulation and impaired wound healing. This can result in slowed healing processes and increased risk of infections.
Diabetics should take extra precaution when getting tattoos or piercings due to potentially impaired wound healing abilities. The healing process may be slowed and there is an increased risk of infection. Please consult with your healthcare provider if considering a tattoo or a piercing.
Type 1 diabetes and celiac disease (causing gluten intolerance) are both autoimmune conditions that share common genetic components. This causes some individuals to have both conditions.
If your continuous glucose monitor (CGM) malfunctions or falls off early, you may be able to request a free replacement. You can call the company directly, or some companies even have online replacement request forms.
Purple Hearts is a 2022 PG-13 romance film in which the main character has type 1 diabetes and must find a solution for her healthcare costs.
Let your insulin come to room temperature after taking out of the fridge to minimize pain while injecting.
Finland has the highest incidence of type 1 diabetes in the world, consisting of 15% of diagnosed cases of diabetes according to the American Diabetes Association.
According to federal law under the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) diabetes is considered a disability and you may be able to apply for accommodations or benefits that are approved on a case by case basis.

